# Tom J. Wilson

## Scientific Research
Tom J. Wilson received his MPhys in Physics with Astrophysics from the University of Exeter, UK, in 2013. His master's dissertation surrounded the determination of the properties of young, pre-main-sequence stellar clusters. He analysed the radiative-convective gap as a possible distance and extinction independent variable for the determination of the age of young stellar clusters, and analysing the effects of age and distance on the initial mass function of young star clusters. His work included characterisation of the choice of filters in a colour-colour diagram, determining the optimal choice of filters for age independent extinction for low mass stars in young star clusters. This work was instrumental in subsequent analysis of the Taurus star forming region, due to the significant and differential reddening across the region.

During his time as an undergraduate at the University of Exeter, Tom J. Wilson also worked with JCMT SCUBA-2 data, working on improvements to data reduction of 450μm and 850μm observations. He subsequently worked on the construction of temperature and dust β maps of these observations, including Herschel datasets to supplement the SCUBA-2 data, resulting in published analyses of NGC1333 and W40.

Tom J. Wilson then received his PhD in Physics from the University of Exeter, UK, in 2018, with his thesis "Solving the Catalogue Cross-Match Problem in the Galaxy Plane". Working with Prof. Tim Naylor, his thesis focussed on the effects blended stars have on the astrometric and photometric properties of stars in crowded Galactic fields. He initially characterised various photometric catalogues by angular resolution and survey completeness, allowing for quantitative comparisons between various published datasets, and discussion of the levels to which they suffer from the crowding of detected sources. He then constructed a probability-based Bayesian cross-matching process which allowing for the symmetric determination of the same source detected in two photometric catalogues in a much more robust manner than previously possible. Tom J. Wilson then combined these two advancements to produce a fully flexible framework for handling the astrometric and photometric perturbations caused by blended sources within the detections of brighter sources, applying the methodology to the cross-matching of _Gaia_ and _WISE_ datasets, the results of which can be found [here](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018yCat.4035....0W/abstract). His thesis, and published works derived from this dissertation, also discuss the implications these effects have, from how to minimise the effects, to how to ensure as complete a samples as possible, to the effects crowding has on ancillary properties such as proper motion, parallax, and exoplanet transit depth, and how the methods he lays out can be used to correct for the systematic biases crowding introduces.

As an avid astrostatistician, Tom J. Wilson is committed to robust methodology and transparent assumptions, as can be seen from the work he undertook throughout his PhD. He enjoys the deeper understanding obtainable from judicious application of Bayesian statistics, with proper application of Bayes' (or should that be de Moivre's?!) theorem to break a problem down into its fundamental properties: prior knowledge and updates to that knowledge with the data likelihood.

Tom J. Wilson is currently a postdoctoral researcher at the Space Telescope Science Institute, working with Dr Lou Strolger on supernovae: both in the present with the BUFFALO program and the Hubble Space Telescope, and in the future with the Wide Field Infrared Survey Telescope, optimising its potential survey parameters to produce a dataset of supernovae best suited to determining the Hubble constant. He occasionally dabbles in exoplanet research, ensuring that the statistical analysis of exoplanet transmission spectra is as thorough as possible, and the results drawn from these challenging datasets are correctly interpreted and well represented.

## Software Development and Programming Work
While at the Space Telescope Science Institute, Tom J. Wilson is also working on the development of the AstroPy [photutils](https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) codebase. Here he is leveraging his expertise in photometry, and specifically work with point-spread functions, to expand on and improve the photutils code surrounding the fitting of point sources in astronomical images.

## CV and Publications
See [here](cv.md) to view Tom J. Wilson's CV, publication list, and talks.
